[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's a lot more that
we don't know about raw foods
and super foods than we do know.
However, it's quite evident
that raw foods, for example,
contain nutrients that are
susceptible to heating that
will change if we cook and
heat them or process them
in any way.
And therefore, it's
important that raw foods
be a part of the
individual's diet.
The simplest thing
is that there are
live enzymes or live
workers inside of our foods
that help with your
body's digestion of foods
and the use of the
nutrients that are there.
So raw foods should be a
part of everybody's diet.
The superfoods are
foods with nutrients
that are very high
in concentration,
whether they be the vitamins
or minerals or enzymes
or special chemicals
that are found
in foods that help our
bodies and cells to function.
Superfoods include things
like spirulina and yeast
and so on, because
these are nutrient--
as we'd say--
nutrient-dense foods.
And they provide us with
unique nutrients that
can help us to function better.
A very simple case is--
or example is in
my own family, we
know that if you expose yourself
to the sun for too long,
you can burn.
There is a superfood
like spirulina
and barley grass,
which you've taken,
can actually reduce the burning
and convert it into a tan.
Now, that's if it's done
very, very carefully.
So we don't know how this works.
We don't know why it happens.
But we do know that
these superfoods
can confer exceptional
properties to your health
and well-being.
The recommended daily
allowance is the amount
of a nutrient that's required by
the majority of the population
to prevent an overt
deficiency disease.
That is, if we give
everybody in Australia
the recommended
intake of vitamin
C at 60 milligrams per
day, then we should not
see scurvy in this country.
However, we still see scurvy in
this country, despite the fact
we're wealthy, and that
we're all on a good diet,
and we've got fresh fruit
and vegetables available.
More importantly,
we see pre-scurvy.
That is, illness before
the full disease occurs.
And that illness can go on
for a long period of time.
That illness being,
tiredness, aches and pains,
paleness in the face, a
little bit of irritability,
a little bit of depression, some
tiredness, and some weakness,
and some poor sleep habits.
Now that is-- those symptoms
are all very non-specific.
And if you go to a doctor
with those symptoms
and repeatedly go to a
doctor with those symptoms,
he will put you on
an antidepressant
because he can't find
anything wrong with you.
But what your
problem is, is you've
got a low level of
vitamin C intake.
And your stores of
vitamin C are too low.
So the recommended
daily allowance
is going to prevent you from
getting scurvy and dying
from scurvy--
that is, the bleeding disease.
But it's not going to make
you optimally healthy.
So the recommended
daily allowance
came from the study of
reasonably healthy subjects,
and the requirements they
needed to prevent them
from getting an overt or
basic deficiency disease.
And I think many
of these studies
were done in the army with
reasonably healthy individuals.
But when you look at hospital
populations and populations
going to doctors,
and populations
of people who are sick, a
very different situation
compared to healthy soldiers.
And the requirements for these
populations are much higher.
You only have to
smoke a cigarette
or drink a glass of wine,
and your daily intake
or daily recommend daily
intake, much of it is destroyed.
So you we're going
to end up that day
with a deficiency of
vitamin C, vitamin
B1, and a few other
nutrients as well.
And if you drink
some alcohol, you
might end up with a
low level folic acid.
And if you drink alcohol every
day, and you're a young woman,
and you have a low
level folic acid,
you might get a lesion on your
cervix, which is precancerous.
Or if that doesn't show
up, and you get pregnant,
you might have a baby that's got
a neural tube defect or a hair
lip or cleft palate or some
minor congenital abnormality
that's gone unrecognized.
Or you may not even conceive.
And folic acid
deficiencies are well
known cause of infertility.
Well known amongst people
who are aware of it,
but not well known amongst
the general medical community.
Are vitamins expensive urine?
We need air, oxygen, water.
We breathe out oxygen.
We pee out water.
It's what the substances do
when they're inside the body.
That's the important
issue and whether or not
we get high enough
levels of these things.
If I go up, say,
8,000 meters, that
is nearly to the top
of Mount Everest, I'm
going to have a huge
deficiency of oxygen.
So I need supplemental oxygen.
If I eat a lousy bread roll
every day, have a cup
of tea for breakfast,
and a piece of toast, a
sugary drink for mid-morning,
a donut for lunch, and takeaway
fried chicken at night,
I'm going to be
massively deficient
in a whole range of nutrients.
And that's only one day.
So I'm going to need something
in the way of supplements.
So the next day, I
eat salad until it's
coming out of my ears to
try and make up for it.
But I never ever
correct the deficiency
that occurred the day before.
There's always going to be a
residual problem somewhere.
So you cannot punish yourselves
without having to pay for it
sooner or later.
Your liver, to get rid
of toxic chemicals,
needs vitamins and minerals
to move the toxic chemicals
outside of your body.
So if you live in
a polluted society,
if you live in a modern
Western city or Eastern city
for that matter, if
you eat food that's
been processed in
any way or gone
through our agricultural system,
and it contains pesticide
and herbicide residues,
it's wise to make
sure your vitamins are at a
slightly higher level than what
you get out of your diet.
Natural therapies and natural
remedies are extremely safe.
In fact, they're probably
safer than drinking our water
supply out of the tap.
And certainly safer than
eating foods, especially
take away foods.
In Australia, we have
120,000 admissions
every year as a result of food
toxicity and food poisonings.
We have 16,000
deaths in hospital
because of the wrong diagnosis
and/or the wrong treatment.
We have something
like 12,000 admissions
as a result of the adverse
reactions from medicines
and drugs.
Very few, if any,
serious adverse reactions
to complementary medicines,
herbal medicines,
and vitamins and minerals.
In fact, they are
extremely, extremely safe.
[MUSIC PLAYING]